# Spotify Genre Bridge
**Author:** Christopher Varghese

## Business Problem
Spotify is in the top tier of music streaming services. With over 100 million listeners, Spotify is always improving their platform to best serve their users. One of the main features of Spotify is their music reccomendation service. The provision of tailored picks ensures that users continue to stream music on their platform, and also benefits creators. Spotify's current algorithm reccomends songs that are similar in grouping and genre to the general pool of music that the user listens to. This model helps to improve their existing algorithm by providing a solution for providing song reccomendations from samples that are greatly differing in genre. Since a main function of music reccomendations are to constantly engage users, providing suggestions that bridge distinct genres that a user is fond of will likely provide the user with fresh music that appeals to their taste in both genres. Providing fresh music that is interesting to the user is a unique way to engage them beyond providing songs that adhere to a single genre that the user listens to, which may not be new music to the user. 

## Overview
This project finds paths between songs that are in different genres using playlist data which is user generated. In this project I will discuss:
- Data Acquistion and Treatment
- Visualization of the Data and Modelling Process
- Model Implementation
- Further Exploration

## Data Understanding
The data was retrieved from Spotify's Million Playlist Dataset Challenge. This dataset contains exactly 1 Million Playlist which were sampled from over 4 Billion playlists that exist on Spotify's Platform. This Dataset contains over 2 Million unique tracks by almost 300,000 artists. For the purposes of this model, I will be representing this data as an undirected weighted graph. In the graph, a node will be a single song and an edge will represent if two songs appear in a playlist together. The weight of each edge will denote the number of playlists the two songs appear in together. Here is an in-depth explanation on the graph data structure. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/graph-data-structure-and-algorithms/

Since this dataset was generated by experts for the purpose of a competition, citing the creators is necessary. I have attached the citation here.

Spotify, Ching-Wei Chen, et al. “Recsys Challenge 2018: Automatic Music Playlist Continuation.” Recsys Challenge 2018 | Proceedings of the 12th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, 1 Sept. 2018, dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3240323.3240342. 

### Visualization of Data
The MPD is divided into 1,000 json files that each contain 1,000 playlists. In order to simply showcase and visualize the graph and search algorithms, 1,000 playlists is an adequate and managable sample. Since the graph and search algorithms are easily scalable in this implementation, utilizing 1,000,000 playlists will be simple to implement later. Additionally, these 1,000 playlists contain 29,005 unique tracks.

['

